ABOU-ALFA | Cornell's Best Dining Hall Reading time: about 4 minutes Among all of Cornell’s dining halls, Okenshields is the only one subject to constant ridicule. Ranging from dry rice to overcooked chicken to a pitifully-sized salad bar, countless students warn of the late-afternoon incontinence that follows any meal from there. Besides this relentless culinary beatdown, many have choice words over the oddly-shaped oval plates, drab decor and, not of its own doing, central location, as it is the only easily accessible meal-swipe dining hall for lunch (lest one is looking to hike up the slope on a belly full of Bether or Becker food). Naturally, one shouldn’t come to expect a Michelin-star experience from a college dining hall, but the unanimity in Okenshields’ usage, from every echelon of undergraduates, graduate students and staff, renders it particularly vulnerable to campus-wide vitriol. Both North and West, frequented by more select groups of students, are spared from this united distaste; even so, not only is the Okenshields-hate exaggerated as a result of its prevalence, but it is completely undeserved in the first place. To start, the Lord of the Rings-inspired name , another favorite of this column, is the dining hall’s immediate unique feature, and a nod to the series’ global popularity at the time it was entitled. Also, its central location, albeit exposing Okenshields to the aforementioned critique, blends together one of the most unique dining esprit-de-corps on campus. Unlike other dining halls, there is no set-in-stone clientele: rarely will Okenshields harbor homogeneous groups of first-years or sophomores. Rather, it is likely for one to come across undergraduates from all years as well as graduate TAs, and it’s even possible to spot the rare professor as well. This unique feature voids Okenshields of the middle school cafeteria-esqueness of other dining halls, accurately depicting Cornell’s diversity. This, paired with the grandiose air of the Ivy room, dotted with each of the league’s school emblems, gives credence to Willard Straight as the heart of central campus and as a genuine representation of the university as a whole. This lively atmosphere is also coupled with one of Cornell’s most exceptional views: a hall that glows gold and orange at dusk thanks to its slope-facing location. Few on-campus dining options rival a nighttime Okenshields dinner. The sunset-lit hall helps relieve even the most soul-consuming before-prelim dinner stress, fostering some appreciation for campus life despite the crushing academics. Right above Okenshields, stepping out onto the Willard Straight patio offers still more expansive views. This, alongside proximity to the Big Red Lounge, one of the most underappreciated games rooms on campus, knits together spaces that lend themselves to meeting and interacting with fellow students, catching up with friends and enjoying Cornell’s most iconic vista. Although food options can be limited, one cannot deny that Okenshields offers some iconic meals. Thursday-lunch pad thai is a delicious, filling option, while evening meals remain one of the few on-campus outlets for fried chicken. These choices notwithstanding, the consistency of Okenshields’ Asian or grill choices provides a safer alternative to the unreliability of Risley or a dining hall on West. Either way, although the troughs of Okenshields food can be precarious, the peaks are well-worth the trouble, and the overall aggregate is perfectly acceptable. And again, given its central location, Okenshields remains the best option for a quick midday bite to eat, accommodating short in-between class and meeting breaks. Finally, even if characteristic of all Cornell dining halls, the Okenshields staff are always gracious and kind, providing a welcome respite from the rush of semester life. Together, they help build a dining room that is classically “Cornell,” accessible to all students and providing one of, if not severely underrated, the best dining options on campus. Ayman Abou-Alfa Ayman Abou-Alfa '27 is an Opinion Columnist and a Physics student & College Scholar in the College of Arts & Sciences. His fortnightly column Mind & Matter delves into the intersection of culture, science and education at Cornell University. He can be reached at aaboualfa@cornellsun.com. Read More STEINGARD | The Government Stopped Counting Hungry Kids on Purpose CARUSO | Success Has Many Interpretations. The Only One That Counts Is Yours. KASSAM | Grace Is Like Rain...